if you've read any poker book dealing
with tournament poker or even watch
tournaments on TV you'll constantly be
reminded of the importance of aggression
however at the same time being cautious
is often equally important so it's
important to figure out the right times
to be aggressive and the times when it
might make more sense to just call let's
look at various scenarios and decide
where your aggression is being best used
one playing a big stack versus another
big stack if you find yourself with a
big stack of chips in a tournament or in
a hand with another very large stack of
your table what does your common sense
tell you that you should do be
aggressive or proceed cautiously I hope
you said proceed cautiously more
important than being aggressive when you
have a big stack is protecting those
chips so that you can maintain your big
stack by being aggressive against an
opponent who could put a huge dent in
your stack you jeopardize your chip
position and might quickly find yourself
on a short stack next is playing from
the dealer button this is a position of
power and one of the best ways to
utilize that power is to be more
aggressive when you're in position
versus the times that you'll have to act
first after the flop as a general rule
you can get away with playing more hands
and later positions than you can in the
earlier positions because you'll have
more information at your disposal to
make good decisions since your opponent
will have to act before you a good way
to practice playing position is to play
the button without even looking at your
cards instead focusing on your
opponent's and trying to figure out if
they're strong or weak
if you sense weakness you can just bet
and they'll likely fold if you're right
of course
if you think they may have a strong hand
it would probably be a good idea to take
a look at your cards 3 is playing top
pair after the flop this is the one
situation where many players go wrong by
getting too aggressive when they flop
the top pair or have an over pair of the
board top pair is a often a very strong
hand in small pots but if the pockets
too large and your opponents are playing
their hands aggressively you should slow
down if all you have is one pair no
matter how big the pair is you should
certainly bet on the flop protect your
hand but if you get any resistance you
want to avoid playing a big pot if at
all possible
next is playing monster draws after flop
a monster draw could be defined as a
pair and a flush draw a straight and
flush draw a straight flush draw flush
or straight job with older cards these
are usually pretty powerful hands and
even when you are forced into playing a
big pot your odds of winning are
generally still very good it's for this
reason that you can afford to be
aggressive with monster drawers after a
flop since being aggressive will give
you two ways to win the pot a your bet
gets everyone to fold and beat you end
up improving your hand and winning a pot
that way finally play aggressive near
the money payouts in a typical
tournament with say 300 players usually
the top 27 will all receive prize money
because of this when they're about 30
players left the play will often become
extremely cautious as many of your
opponents will be hoping to hang on for
a money finish it's at this precise
moment that you should seize your
opportunity to steal as many chips as
possible by being aggressive against
those players trying to squeak into the
money this will increase the chances
that you yourself miss the money of
course but in the long run it will pay
off as you'll give yourself a chance to
hit one of the top three spots more
often and that's where the brunt of the
money is in tournament poker